---
id: ex11
title: Exercise 11
---

:::info
This is an in-class exercise. An exercise page like this one will contain a brief description but is intended to be supplemented by discussion during our meeting time. Complete the exercise to the best of your ability in the time given. Feel free to talk with other students as you work, and do not be afraid to ask questions. Aim to complete as much as possible during our meeting and continue to work at home to finish, but you need not hand it in. 
:::

## Learning Objectives

:::success Objectives
This exercise should help you practice with:
* Unit testing randomness
* Unit testing methods/classes that do i/o
* REST API testing
* rest-assured tool
:::

## Answer the following questions

1. What are some of the techniques to unit test methods/classes that work with (psuedo)random generators?

2. How do you unit test a method that does not return anything but writes to standard output? What if it outputs to a file?

## Task 1

Consider the following helper method that prints the content of an array to standard output:

```
public void printArray(int[] a) {
    for (int i = 0; i < a.length; ++i) {
        System.out.print(a[i] + " ");
    }
}
```

write a unit test to verify that `printArray` indeed prints the content of the array {1, 2,3, 4} correctly on standard ouput.

## Task 2
Get a free API key to work with JHU SIS API from [here](https://sis.jhu.edu/api) if you do not have one already. Utilizing [rest-assured](https://rest-assured.io/), 

1. Assert that the `Computer Science` department exists within `Whiting School of Engineering`
2. Assert that the course `Data Structures` is offered within `Whiting School of Engineering` in the current academic term
3. Assert that sending a `post` request to a SIS endpoint returns the status error code `405`.


