---
id: ex12
title: Exercise 12 (Tue 3/15)
---

:::info
This is an in-class exercise. An exercise page like this one will contain a brief description but is intended to be supplemented by discussion during our meeting time. Complete the exercise to the best of your ability in the time given. Feel free to talk with other students as you work, and do not be afraid to ask questions. Aim to complete as much as possible during our meeting and continue to work at home to finish, but you need not hand it in. 
:::

## Learning Objectives

:::success Objectives
This exercise should help you practice with:
* Non-functional testing, specifically load testing
* Load testing metrics
* JMeter tool
:::

## Answer the following questions

1. What is the difference between accessibility testing and usability testing?
2. What is Internationalization/localization testing concerned about?
3. What is the difference between Performance testing, Load testing, Spike testing, and Soak Testing?
4. What are the main steps to load testing?
5. Name some of the important metrics we typically use in load testing?
6. Why is peak response time is an important metric even though it is just a single number that represents the max reponse time?

## Task 1

Download [Apache Jmeter](https://jmeter.apache.org/). Try to replicate the demo we did in class but this time use 100 virtyal users that send 1000 requests to https://the-internet.herokuapp.com/ over a 100 seconds period (i.e., 10 requests per second):

1. What is average response time?
1. What is peak response time?
3. What is 90%, 95% and 99% percentile time? Are there many users who will potentially avoid the website given this load? Recall that <0.1 second is considered instant response, <1.0 second is acceptable, but not ideal, and 5+ seconds user will avoid the app.
4. What is throughput? Can the website keep up with the load?
5. Replay the above scenarios a few times and verify whether the above results deviate a lot from run to run or not.

